Just like we did with the registration process,
to understand the end‑to‑end solution that we're going
to build for the password reset,
let's actually see the demo first of what we're going to build.
We're going to walk through gathering the username and email
address information, posting to the controller,
sending the email,
confirming and obtaining the new password that we want to
set, and finally, updating the login information with that
new password in our database.
Let's go ahead and walk through that application now and see everything
that we're going to build in an end‑to‑end solution.
You'll notice here on our Login page that I have now included a
Forgot password link. And when we click on that,
it's going to navigate us to a page where it's going to ask us to enter our
username and the email address associated with our account.
So I'll put in our pluralsightbryantest that we have been using @gmail.com,
and when I click Reset Password,
it will go ahead and fire off an event that will send a
password reset email to our Gmail account.
When I open this up,
it will take me to a page where it passes that token in now to see
that we actually do have permissions to do that.
And I can enter in our new password and click Reset,
which will go through and round trip to the database and update
our logging information with that new password.
So, from the UI perspective,
not a lot different from what we did for the creation of
an account and confirming that account, but on the back end,
a few small tweaks.
So let's dive into those now by starting to look and see what we did with the UI portion of our application.